docs/config.md, before:

Configuration
=============

**The examples in this chapter assume schema_version 2 is used, schema_version 1 is still supported. 
But schema_version 2 uses some advanced features that could cause problems when not
all team members use the same configuration!** See [upgrade](upgrade.md) for more information.

Since Hubkit v1.2 it's possible to use a local configuration housed in the repository itself,
see below for more information.

Schema Version
--------------

The `schema_version` defines configuration schema version.

Since Hubkit v1.2 `schema_version` 2 should be used with the correct structure.
While `schema_version` 1 is still supported until Hubkit 2.0, it will produce a warning message everytime Hubkit is used. 
The new configuration schema provides for some powerful features including a local configuration file and per branch configuration.

Authentication
--------------

Before Hubkit can be used to manage your repositories you first need to configure
the GitHub authentication credentials. Get a new token at: https://github.com/settings/tokens/new

Use a unique and distinct name like: `hubkit on computer-1 at 2016-11-01 14:54 CET`
with scopes: "repo, user:email, read:gpg_key".

HubKit supports GitHub Enterprise, and therefor you can add multiple
hub configurations by there hostname. The default one is `github.com`.

```php
// ...
return [
    // ...
    'github' => [
        'github.com' => [ // hostname of the hub
            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
        ],
//        'hub.my-corp.com' => [ // hostname of your GitHub Enterprise installation
//            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
//            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
//            'api_url' => 'https://api.hub.mycorp.com/' // schema + hostname to API endpoint (excluding API version)
//        ],
    ],
];
```

Repository Configuration
------------------------

Specific features like repository splitting or disabling upmerge for some branches
only work when the configuration for these repositories is set.

The repository configuration structure starts with the hostname as the root, followed
by a list of repositories housed at the hub (like github.com) with their full-name
'organization/repository-name' like `rollerworks/search`.

### Branches

Each repository entry has a 'branches' configuration to either set the configuration for all branches
using `:default`, or per specific branch `2.0`.

A branch name can be either `:default` (see below), `main` _or_ `master`, a minor-version pattern `2.x`/`v2.*`,
a regexp (without anchors or options) like `/[1-2]\.\d+/`, or `#1.x` when the branch name could be confused for a pattern.

**Note:** The `:default` branch defines the default configuration for all branches, and is later merged with 
the configuration of a specific branch. Use `'ignore-default' => true` to ignore all inherited defaults.

If **no** specific branch is found like 'main' or '2.1' the correct configuration is resolved
by traversing all (in order of listing) the patterns and regexp until a matching version is found.

If no configuration was found the `:default` configuration (if set) is used.

Use `false` as value to mark a branch as ignored, this will set all options to `false` and empty respectively.

Each branch has the following options:

| Name             | Type    | Default  | Description                                                                                                       | 
|------------------|---------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `sync-tags`      | Boolean | `true`   | _Only when 'split' targets are configured_, <br/>whether new tags should be synchronized when creating a release. |
| `ignore-default` | Boolean | `false`  | Whether the ':default' configuration should be ignored.                                                           |
| `upmerge`        | Boolean | `true`   | _Not supported at the moment._                                                                                    |
| `split`          | array   | `[]`     | See Repository splitting for details.                                                                             |

```php
// ... At config path `repositories.[github.com].[organization/repository-name]`

'branches' => [
    ':default' => [
        'sync-tags' => true,
        'split' => [
            'src/Module/CoreModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
            'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
        ],
    ],
    '1.0' => false, // Disabled
    '2.x' => [ // '2.x' is a pattern equivalent to '/2\.\d+/'
        'upmerge' => false,
        // Split's is inherited and merged from ':default'
        'split' => [
            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
        ],
    ],
    '#3.x' => [ // The actual branch name is 3.x would be confused for a pattern
        'sync-tags' => null, // Inherit from the root configuration.
        'split' => [
            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => false,
            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
        ],
    ],
    '/4\.\d+/' => [ // Same as 4.x
        'ignore-default' => true, // Nothing is inherited from ':default'
        'sync-tags' => false,
        'src/Bundle/CoreBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
        'src/Bundle/WebhostingBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
        'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
    ],
],
```

#### Repository splitting (`split` config)

A list of paths (relative to repository root, *no patterns*) and the value, either a 'push url' 
or an array with following options `['url' => 'push url', 'sync-tags' => false]`.

**Note:** Missing directories are ignored with a warning. In Hubkit v2.0 this behavior is bound to change.

```php
// ... At config path `repositories.[github.com].[organization/repository-name].[branch-name]`
                    
'split' => [
    'src/Module/CoreModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
    'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
    'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
],
```

Full example
------------

```php
<?php
// config.php

return [
    'schema_version' => 2,
    'github' => [
        'github.com' => [ // hostname of the hub
            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
        ],
//        'hub.my-corp.com' => [ // hostname of your GitHub Enterprise installation
//            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
//            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
//            'api_url' => 'https://api.hub.mycorp.com/' // schema + hostname to API endpoint (excluding API version)
//        ],
    ],

    'repositories' => [
        'github.com' => [
            'park-manager/park-manager' => [
                'branches' => [
                    ':default' => [
                        'sync-tags' => true,
                        'split' => [
                            'src/Module/CoreModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
                            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                            'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
                        ],
                    ],
                    '1.0' => false, // Disabled
                    '#2.x' => [
                        'upmerge' => false,
                        // Split's is inherited and merged from ':default'
                        'split' => [
                            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        ],
                    ],
                    '3.x' => [
                        'sync-tags' => null, // Inherit from the root configuration.
                        'split' => [
                            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => false, // Unset path inherited from ':default'
                            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        ],
                    ],
                    '4.1' => [
                        'ignore-default' => true, // Nothing is inherited from ':default'
                        'sync-tags' => false,
                        'src/Bundle/CoreBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
                        'src/Bundle/WebhostingBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
                    ],
                    '/4\.\d+/' => [ // Note: While this matches all 4.x, 4.1 is already explicitly defined 
                        'ignore-default' => true, // Nothing is inherited from ':default'
                        'sync-tags' => false,
                        'src/Bundle/CoreBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
                        'src/Bundle/WebhostingBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ],
    ],
];
```

Local Configuration
-------------------

Since Hubkit v1.2 it's possible to use a local configuration housed in the repository itself.

**Note:** This requires in the main `config.php` file `schema_version` 2 is used, 
otherwise the local configuration is ignored.

**No authentication credentials must be stored in local configuration!**

This file contains the configuration _only_ for the current repository and supersedes 
the main configuration entry defined for this repository.

### Initialize Configuration

To create the special branch that HubKit uses to store the config.file and some additional scripts
for special operations run the `init-config` command to create this branch, and import any existing
configuration from your global config.php file.

**Note:** The .gitignore is automatically copied from your primary branch (either main or master) to
ensure no unrelated files are accidentally added when working on this branch. The _hubkit sits separate
from your normal Git workflow and shares no parenting to any existing branch.

Once you are done run the `sync-config` command to push your changes.

Use the `self-diagnose` command to check your configuration and see if any updated is needed.

### Synchronize Configuration

To update the configuration by either pushing your changes or pulling-in the latest version
from the upstream simply run the `sync-config` command.

Only if your branches have diverged to much you need to resolve any conflicts manually.
Once done either push manually or run the command again.

Commit message:

Allow to disable upmerge for a specific branch
Effectively disabling upmerge for a brach will continue with other branches

docs/config.md, after:

Configuration
=============

**The examples in this chapter assume schema_version 2 is used, schema_version 1 is still supported. 
But schema_version 2 uses some advanced features that could cause problems when not
all team members use the same configuration!** See [upgrade](upgrade.md) for more information.

Since Hubkit v1.2 it's possible to use a local configuration housed in the repository itself,
see below for more information.

Schema Version
--------------

The `schema_version` defines configuration schema version.

Since Hubkit v1.2 `schema_version` 2 should be used with the correct structure.
While `schema_version` 1 is still supported until Hubkit 2.0, it will produce a warning message everytime Hubkit is used. 
The new configuration schema provides for some powerful features including a local configuration file and per branch configuration.

Authentication
--------------

Before Hubkit can be used to manage your repositories you first need to configure
the GitHub authentication credentials. Get a new token at: https://github.com/settings/tokens/new

Use a unique and distinct name like: `hubkit on computer-1 at 2016-11-01 14:54 CET`
with scopes: "repo, user:email, read:gpg_key".

HubKit supports GitHub Enterprise, and therefor you can add multiple
hub configurations by there hostname. The default one is `github.com`.

```php
// ...
return [
    // ...
    'github' => [
        'github.com' => [ // hostname of the hub
            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
        ],
//        'hub.my-corp.com' => [ // hostname of your GitHub Enterprise installation
//            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
//            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
//            'api_url' => 'https://api.hub.mycorp.com/' // schema + hostname to API endpoint (excluding API version)
//        ],
    ],
];
```

Repository Configuration
------------------------

Specific features like repository splitting or disabling upmerge for some branches
only work when the configuration for these repositories is set.

The repository configuration structure starts with the hostname as the root, followed
by a list of repositories housed at the hub (like github.com) with their full-name
'organization/repository-name' like `rollerworks/search`.

### Branches

Each repository entry has a 'branches' configuration to either set the configuration for all branches
using `:default`, or per specific branch `2.0`.

A branch name can be either `:default` (see below), `main` _or_ `master`, a minor-version pattern `2.x`/`v2.*`,
a regexp (without anchors or options) like `/[1-2]\.\d+/`, or `#1.x` when the branch name could be confused for a pattern.

**Note:** The `:default` branch defines the default configuration for all branches, and is later merged with 
the configuration of a specific branch. Use `'ignore-default' => true` to ignore all inherited defaults.

If **no** specific branch is found like 'main' or '2.1' the correct configuration is resolved
by traversing all (in order of listing) the patterns and regexp until a matching version is found.

If no configuration was found the `:default` configuration (if set) is used.

Use `false` as value to mark a branch as ignored, this will set all options to `false` and empty respectively.

Each branch has the following options:

| Name             | Type    | Default  | Description                                                                                                       | 
|------------------|---------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `sync-tags`      | Boolean | `true`   | _Only when 'split' targets are configured_, <br/>whether new tags should be synchronized when creating a release. |
| `ignore-default` | Boolean | `false`  | Whether the ':default' configuration should be ignored.                                                           |
| `upmerge`        | Boolean | `true`   | Set to false to disable upmerge for this branch configuration, and continue with next possible version.           |
| `split`          | array   | `[]`     | See Repository splitting for details.                                                                             |

```php
// ... At config path `repositories.[github.com].[organization/repository-name]`

'branches' => [
    ':default' => [
        'sync-tags' => true,
        'split' => [
            'src/Module/CoreModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
            'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
        ],
    ],
    '1.0' => false, // Disabled all
    '2.x' => [ // '2.x' is a pattern equivalent to '/2\.\d+/'
        'upmerge' => false, // Disable upmerge for this branch, effectively all of the '2.x' range are skipped
        // Split's is inherited and merged from ':default'
        'split' => [
            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
        ],
    ],
    '#3.x' => [ // The actual branch name is 3.x would be confused for a pattern
        'sync-tags' => null, // Inherit from the root configuration.
        'split' => [
            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => false,
            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
        ],
    ],
    '/4\.\d+/' => [ // Same as 4.x
        'ignore-default' => true, // Nothing is inherited from ':default'
        'sync-tags' => false,
        'src/Bundle/CoreBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
        'src/Bundle/WebhostingBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
        'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
    ],
],
```

#### Repository splitting (`split` config)

A list of paths (relative to repository root, *no patterns*) and the value, either a 'push url' 
or an array with following options `['url' => 'push url', 'sync-tags' => false]`.

**Note:** Missing directories are ignored with a warning. In Hubkit v2.0 this behavior is bound to change.

```php
// ... At config path `repositories.[github.com].[organization/repository-name].[branch-name]`
                    
'split' => [
    'src/Module/CoreModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
    'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
    'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
],
```

Full example
------------

```php
<?php
// config.php

return [
    'schema_version' => 2,
    'github' => [
        'github.com' => [ // hostname of the hub
            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
        ],
//        'hub.my-corp.com' => [ // hostname of your GitHub Enterprise installation
//            'username' => '', // fill-in your github username
//            'api_token' => '', // fill-in the new GitHub authentication token (NOT YOUR PASSWORD!)
//            'api_url' => 'https://api.hub.mycorp.com/' // schema + hostname to API endpoint (excluding API version)
//        ],
    ],

    'repositories' => [
        'github.com' => [
            'park-manager/park-manager' => [
                'branches' => [
                    ':default' => [
                        'sync-tags' => true,
                        'split' => [
                            'src/Module/CoreModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
                            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                            'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
                        ],
                    ],
                    '1.0' => false, // Disabled
                    '#2.x' => [
                        'upmerge' => false,
                        // Split's is inherited and merged from ':default'
                        'split' => [
                            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        ],
                    ],
                    '3.x' => [
                        'sync-tags' => null, // Inherit from the root configuration.
                        'split' => [
                            'src/Module/WebhostingModule' => false, // Unset path inherited from ':default'
                            'src/Module/DomainRegModule' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        ],
                    ],
                    '4.1' => [
                        'ignore-default' => true, // Nothing is inherited from ':default'
                        'sync-tags' => false,
                        'src/Bundle/CoreBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
                        'src/Bundle/WebhostingBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
                    ],
                    '/4\.\d+/' => [ // Note: While this matches all 4.x, 4.1 is already explicitly defined 
                        'ignore-default' => true, // Nothing is inherited from ':default'
                        'sync-tags' => false,
                        'src/Bundle/CoreBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/core-module.git',
                        'src/Bundle/WebhostingBundle' => 'git@github.com:hubkit-sandbox/webhosting-module.git',
                        'docs' => ['url' => 'git@github.com:park-manager/doc.git', 'sync-tags' => false],
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ],
    ],
];
```

Local Configuration
-------------------

Since Hubkit v1.2 it's possible to use a local configuration housed in the repository itself.

**Note:** This requires in the main `config.php` file `schema_version` 2 is used, 
otherwise the local configuration is ignored.

**No authentication credentials must be stored in local configuration!**

This file contains the configuration _only_ for the current repository and supersedes 
the main configuration entry defined for this repository.

### Initialize Configuration

To create the special branch that HubKit uses to store the config.file and some additional scripts
for special operations run the `init-config` command to create this branch, and import any existing
configuration from your global config.php file.

**Note:** The .gitignore is automatically copied from your primary branch (either main or master) to
ensure no unrelated files are accidentally added when working on this branch. The _hubkit sits separate
from your normal Git workflow and shares no parenting to any existing branch.

Once you are done run the `sync-config` command to push your changes.

Use the `self-diagnose` command to check your configuration and see if any updated is needed.

### Synchronize Configuration

To update the configuration by either pushing your changes or pulling-in the latest version
from the upstream simply run the `sync-config` command.

Only if your branches have diverged to much you need to resolve any conflicts manually.
Once done either push manually or run the command again.
